AGENTSTHE MODERN WORLD SAHOUSE OF CARDS REMDVEONE AND EVERYTHlNG FALS APART.THE VIFU5STRUCKTHE CITY ONLY DAV⁵AG0.BLACK FRIDAY.THEY CALLEDIT.AND SDCETY COLLAPSED ALMDST IMEDATELV.THESTRATEGKC HOMELAND DVSONIS ANAUTONOMOUS UNITCF SLEPER AGENTS WHO LEADAPARENTV ORDNARYLIVES UNTLTHEV ARE NEDED.THEVARE TRANED TDOPERATE INCEPENDENTLY IN ORCER TO TAKE BACK THESTREETS.WHEN SDCETY FAL5.THEY RISE.
FOREWORD
e most amazing
We work in
of mediums.
We create virtual worlds
that the gamers can enter and
live through an emotional,
immersive iourney where
they are the real Hero. It's
such an unbelievable joy to
see a gamer exploring one o
the disital dreams we have

lovingly crafted, often over
the course of many. many
years, in a studio flled with
concentrated artists and enginers, collaboratinglate intethe night in the pale, blue light of an army of computerscreens.But before there is a game, we must dream about thedream itself.We talk and we brainstorm. We use references anddiscuss what we like and what we don't. Looking at thereal world, we research life, nature, and history. We
raad and we think on our own. and come back the next
day witha rich bouquet of ideas that we share with each
all: To shape the vitual wor'd inour minds before it exists
the dream will become reality when gamers can enter into
it and act as they will
Before we write the millions of lines of code that is the
hidden skeleton of a same. we often start with images -
we make pictures. Because when you think of it, ideas are
like images,a wordless mix of color, composition, pace,
mood and emotion First there are some quick strokes,
ingredients. Then, after discussing the sketches intensely,
we add more details. and embark on a patient visual
exploration that reveas so many thing about the game
what we meant to say until we see the right image. And
we discover that those pictures contain hidden gems anc
pleasant surprises even for ourselves.
This is what concept art is about
It is the challenge of expressing the shapeless dream,
it is the craft of defining that which is currently withouta comprehensive semantic. Thank god then, that wehave heen hlessed with such an ahundance of talentedartists on Tom Clancy's The Division! From studios basedin Sweden, England, France and the US, there have beenpassionate concept artists working day in and day out tocarve out one answer after another A street. an aoent afrightened civilian,a society collapsing, abandoned cars,dogs and wildlife, enemies preparing an ambush,majesticbuildings...And then: Weather, color palettes, smokelioht. effects.narticles.nlaver skills.loggtunes. andieoytoerds, And so it goes on! We plaster the walls of thestudio with art and images. We walk among them as if ina matrix of some magic yet to appear. As we live our daysamong those pictures, the game is tenderly guided andprotected by the simple fact that an image says more thana thousand words . and they make sure we subconsciouslyshare the same dream.
we created during this project. We hope you will enjoythis book as much as we do on the team of Tom Clancy'sThe Division!mmense admiration for your craftsmanship!
avid Polfeldt Mannoino DirectorMassive Entertainment |a Uiisoft
Casual attire gives way to a harder aesthetic. "You canchange your gear and vanity items to look very civilianor very military,"begins Lead Concept Artist TomGarden."These items are identical for male and femalecharacters, and this was important for us to create amore gender neutral choice for players."
"we did a lot of exploration onwhat became the SHD agents,"says Brand Art Director RodrigoCortes. "Some iterations wheremore military, some lookedvery sci-fi, but we settled on acivilian look very quickly."Aboveand right: equipment and armorto deal with a variety of combatand emergency scenarios.
CONCEPT ART	Battered, broken and yet unbowed. As these conceptimages show, surviving the chaos takes its toll in real timeand with varying degrees of damage. This agent is stilllucky enough to be classified as walking wounded. "Fayeis a Division agent like the player character, however anincident incapacitates her and leaves her to run things
from behind a desk, much to her chagrin,"says TomGarden. "We wanted to make sure that, post-injury, shestill looked ready to hop back into action. She keeps hervest and sidearm equipped, and has hooked her shadecomputer to her belt. She'll support you over the comms,but cannot wait to get a slice of the action herself."
CONCEPT ART
Coordination and effective communication are thekeystones of successful operations. The SHD agent'swristwatch and other personal accoutrements,however, are well up to the task of keeping theteam together. "The watch is a natural evolution ofthe smart phone,"says Rodrigo Cortes."The greatthing for our agent is that it can be worn both incivilian life and on the job without drawing muchattention.Even the contact lenses,which displaythe information for the agents,are based on existingprototype technology.Coupled with augmentedreality it becomes a true force-multiplier withcountless applications and areas of use."Robust form follows ruggedfunction. These images showthe design team's dedicationto making even the smallestdetails of gameplay tangible,practical and grounded inreal-world technologies. Theorange ring is a sign of unity onboth the watch and backpackcomputer.
The small sockethere lies at anangle on the edgof this part
The ring is notorange in colourbut is an activated light
Hollographic
projecto
View from side
of this indent
TOM CLANCYS THE DIVISION
As an ostensibly covert cell,Division agents have no formalbase of operations and mustcarry a lot of their equipmentwith them, this includes a lotof specialized gear. One of themore iconic pieces is the shadecomputer which is hooked ontotheir backpacks
CONCEPT ART
The team designed a Rappellingtool for the agents to use, itallows them to quickly ascend anddescend climbable ropes in thegame. This is essential for speedand maneuverability in city ofskyscrapers.
Beneath an agent's normal
daywear they have a special
A fully-laden Division agent is a self-contained and battle-ready combat unit. Annotations to the left indicate thebasic components of a typical load-out, with clothing andequipment options to deal with most situations that he orshe is likely to encounter. Lead Concept Artist Tom Gardendives into the detail: "We have six gear carrying slots andsix vanity slots on the character. This allows for a lot of
personalization and customization,not only in terms ofgameplay but also how you will look. You also have theoption to take off hats, scarves or jackets if you wish. Foryour gear, as you level up the aesthetics will look muchcooler and you will gain a more tactical silhouette with
more thigh rigging, bags and protective armor."
Division agents are neither reactionaryvigilantes nor fearful survivalists, but muststill be ready to react to any number ofsituations at a moment's notice. The backpackis an iconic part of our agents. The art teamtook inspiration from military contractors,'preppers' and go-bags for the visualaesthetics. As the players level the bags willevolve and gain new accessories. The artistsalso included a visual representation of eachskill item active on the bag, as well as on theface mask. 	Strobes and mines are designed tomake life difficult for adversariesof any variety. The Firefly deliversblinding flashes that incapacitatean opponent long enough foran agent to gain a more lethaladvantage.Hotspot and Distractionmines may create a more lastingimpression. "The player has manyskills at their disposal as they levelup,"says Tom garden. "We wentthrough many ideas before settlingon the final group of skills. It wasa balancing act to make them feelgrounded in reality, but fun andrewarding in terms of gameplayand visuals."
SHD agents should dress properly for the task at handand the prevailing weather conditions. The art teamdeveloped a variety of looks for the agents whichare possible by simply playing around with differentcombinations of items. One key items that can changeis the look of the player's jacket. Players can chooseto wear the jacket or remove it to reveal a Body Vest.Below are some of the very first agent sketches createdby the concept artists.
The steely gaze of this agent as he focuses on his targetindicates both his grim determination and the tremendousSkill of the artists in conveying the scene in such
convincing and utterly lifelike detail. The vivid reflectionin his eyes, the shine on his nose and pores of his skin
shows that the artists have ventured far beyond theuncanny valley here. Realism in the game is an importantfactor to the team when creating the look of the agents.Having high resolution marketing art and renders helpedto reach that goal within the playable game.
ECHOS
Certain events of the outbreak canbe replayed in short segments and aspectral orange hue. ECHO is a toolthat allows agents to analyze theirenvironments by assembling datafrom a range of sources. It is a usefulresource for any agent to trace hostilemovements, missing persons or hiddencaches of supplies and equipment.
A traumatic scene is reviewed through the prism ofthe ECHO system. There are many like it, and mostare difficult to witness. However,important gameplaydetails may reveal themselves on close examination.Lead Concept Artist Tom Garden explains further:"An important aspect in the creation of ECHOs wasto communicate the differences between real-worldelements and ECHO elements. A withered real world plantmight reveal its sprightly self once the ECHO is activated,to give a sense of passing time. Special attention was paidto the small details in the environment. Seemingly trivialthings, such as an overturned picture frame or an ECHOflashlight differing slightly from its real-world position,may prove to be important clues in your investigations.Make sure to keep a look out for these irregularities!"
When game development is at its most fun, it is an organicand collaborative process between multiple disciplines.Someone has a need or a problem and others chip into solve it. The ECHO is an example of such a thing,"adds Rodrigo Cortes, "Essentially driven by a narrativeneed,it is a collaborative effort between code,design,UI and writers. The basic need was to find a way torelay information from the past without disrupting thecooperative experience for the player.Not wanting tolock people into cut-scenes or risk members of the playergroup missing what happened,the ECHO was suggestedas a possible solution. It was however a new challenge,soit required insight and help from multiple experts. Likemany other features created through iterative design, ithas blossomed over time into its current form."

O. CONTENTS
The Division is an open-world, online,cooperative, combination of RPG and shooterwith an emphasis on immersing the player intothe game world.
This guide will help you understand the artisticstyle and overall vision of the User Interfacewithin The Division. It includes best practices fordesigning strong Ul within a 3-Dimensional space,ensuring clear communication while delivering anengaging visual experience.
We recommend you familiarize yourself withthese guidelines before you begin working ordeveloping Ul.
1. Core Pillars 
2.Defining the UI 
3.Defining the Tech -
4.Defining the Style 
5.The Visual Ingredients 
6.Colors & Opacities
7Text & Legibility
lconography Style8.
9.Shaders
10. Camera
NOTE This follows tip regarding conteyRoGuE This follows note regarding thy
11. Motion & AnimationMenu Systems
Simplicity
UI should be minimal, to enhanceclarity, and minimize screenspace. Removingall unnecessary decorative elements, andemphasizing a clear focal point will enhanceunderstanding of UI schemes, 1 Simple geometricshapes and clean lines will enhance clarity andlegibility for small icons and symbols, 2 Findingalternatives to using text when possible willpush the Ul to convey information spatially andin more intuitive ways.
Directly Understandable
It should be effortless for the playerto find, read and process important informationpresented by the Ul, 3 Relevant and importantinformation should always be available andclearly discernible by the player, at a distance,and in various lighting conditions.
1 See visual ingredients about shape, heirarchyand creating a focal point2 See iconography style
Functionality
Each Ul element should serve andconvey its designed purpose in a clear manner.For example, a map's primary purpose is to aidthe player in navigating the world, If the mapfails to do so, the Ul element has failed.
Consistency
The navigation and interaction betweendifferent Ul elements should be coherent in termsof input bindings, art and feedback, 4 The Ulshould make the player feel at home in possiblybig, complex and unexplored systems, adhering tothe same interaction schemes of fewest possibleinteractions.
3 See legibillity standards4 See animatiortemporary and 
Diagetic
Ul to the furthest extent possible is tobe presented in world. This is to keep the playersconscious mind in the game world, incorporatingall UI seamlessly in the experience. Ul elementsshould be presented in such a way that it appearsthat the player character is aware and interactingwith it. Ul is to be used both to convey vitalinformation to player, and as a visual effect toenhance the experience and give it context to thegame narrative.
"Immersion is the final goal for developing a unique,memorable experience within The Division."
Immersion
Immersion is maximized by reducingthe perception outside the current focus area.This focus is achieved by following the Ul designpillars, integrating UI into the game world, anddeveloping intuitive and logical designs willcreate the most immersed game experience.
2.1 Diagetic User Interface
Meta User Interface
The Division aims to minimize 'meta' Ul, or UI that looks to appearon the 2D hub plane like a traditional HUD. Meta Ul also includes full screeneffects, damage indication, and offscreen markers.
Spatial User Interface
User Interface that sits in 3D within the game world, such asbutton icons, help prompts, or player stats, are considered Spatial Ul, TheseUIl elements are in 3D, but sit outside the game narrative, and remind theplayer of the 'game',
Diagetic UI
The goal for the Division UI is to develop a completely DiageticUser Interface experience within the game world, relating to the playercharacter, Diagetic interface is in context to the game story, and spatiallypositioned in the game world, aiming to keep the player fully engaged in thefiction of the universe.
It is the aim of this style guide to encourage all UI to beDiagetic by bringing the Ul into context as an operatingsystem used by The Division Shades.

2.2 Thinking in Volumes
Traditional Ul stems from Graphic Design principles which evolved for the2-Dimensional page, Working in 3-dimensions means utilizing z-depth withpurpose to enhance 2-D understanding.
X
Abc
Abc
Incorporation of z-depth
Proper use of 2-depth' can greatly enhance understandingand focus. Another strength of voluretric design is in the ability tointeract with a space and the objects within it,reducing the difficultyof relating information to the game world.
X
Abc
X
AbCAbc
Ensuring Legibility
When overused,moving too many elernents in 2-depthcan reduce Legibility and break apart the grid, Overlapping oftransparent objects should also be avoided as it creates urwantedclutter. 'Stacking' however, when legibility is not a concem, candemonstrate an accumulation or list.
X
AbE
Abc
1Z-Depth - The thind dimension farmed when a 2 dimensianal spaceIs pushed towards or away from the viewer.
4x
3.1 What is the OS?
The operating system behind the Shade? Tech is designed to be aconstant companion, with a careful overview of the environmentand the safety of its user.
The MysTech- OS is constantly interacting andgathering information from the environment, giving theappearance of seamless integration with the world.
By momentarily adding visual information to the environment,the OS enhances the users understanding and interactionwith the environment, augmenting ones reality.
1 Shades - The covert aperatlves within the 'StrategicHameland Division (SHD), tasked with investigating theoutbreak following Black Friday.
2 Mys -(n) Swedish. An Infarmal word for 'casiness, careand comfort'
MYSTECHos
AUGMENTING REALITY
Logo
Points and Lines are the most basic
visual ingredient,reflecting thebinary aspect of digital data.
Tagline
The OS is augmenting ones abilityto comprehend and interact with theimmediate environment.
3.2 Where is the OS?
The Shade gear
The Division Operatives are fitted witha range of equipment to prepare them for adversesituations. The parts relative to the OS, which can bestarting points or links with the world around them,are the Wrist Watch and Shoulder ring.
The Iris Display
The Ul is visualised through Retinal Displaytechnology worn by the Shade Operatives. With theocular enhancement, operatives can see Interfacesprojected in perspective, and integrated into theworld around them.
4.1 Program Generated Design
MathematicalNon-organicSpatialFlexible
Program-generated Design can describethe visualization of digital information, Standardpractice for programming applies in order to makesoftware run quickly and be adaptable, whichrequires simplification and the use of generativesystems to visualize complex systems.
How does a computer program visualize an area or object?
Design schemes should be mathematical, based on simple shapes andvolumes: lines and points building areas and showing directions.
Since the OS is generating graphics 'on the fly' based on situationalinformation, the style treatment should look simple, This also lends to thestyles flexibility: the designs should function to any situation and lighting,
4.2 Behaviour Infographics
Light & AiryBehaviouralPreciseBasic
Engineering schematics often use linesto demonstrate behavioural and range of motion.Rather than defining shape and volume, thestyle of the OS is brought to a more basic level,demonstrating motion and action, The result is alight and airy schematic that describes behavior.
How would a mechanical arm be visualized usingthe OS style of behavioural infographics?
This precise and mechanical style is combined with the care of an artist tocreate clear heirarchy and focus by adding weight, and varying apacities,The resulting infographics' should quickly and clearly reveal importantinformation to the character without visually obstructing the environment.
4.3 Imperfect Software
F18
Momentary glitchSequential
Imperfect
The MYSTECH OS was rushed intouse, released mid-development in response to theevents in Manhattan.
Though the OS should not be capable of definingand tracing complex and organic shapes, itinstead can renders appraximations based onsimple shapes and lines, It can notice motionand extrapolate direction, but it should never bevisually perfect.
"The world within The Division is broken,and because of this, so is the technology.'
Sequential animation should make it appear as if information is loadingrather than instantly popping on-screen, This momentary 'glitching' isvisible when Ul appears and disappears, and sometimes the tech isdisabled or interfered with,' See Darpa Shader
Chromatic abberation is a visual effect applied to the screen as awhole to create a sense of 'glitching' on the Lens interface.
NOTE Since the Ull Is not generated by holographic light,thereshould be no glow effect.
1 The Darpa Shader Is a lfragments text as It appe
St
Strong
093
5. VISUAL INGREDIENTS
5.1 Points, Lines & Shapes
define shapes that are light & airyreinforce a navigation pathwayguide the eye through animation
Points and lines can define areas andobjects without cluttering visibility, they canconnect a beginning to an endpoint to reinforcenavigation, and can guide the eye throughsequential animation.
For this reason, the visual language behind theMys Tech OS is predominantly points and lines,reflecting both the binary form of digital data, andthe node based system from which the game UIis built from.
A point defines a location, object, or moment intime. It is a 'node' which holds a value and carriesinformation: a beginning and an endpoint.
A line defines a motion, space or distance.It represents transmission, action anddirection: a connection between points.

6.1 Warm vs Cool: Primary Colors
"The Shades represent warmth and hope against thebackdrop of a cool and desolate Manhattan."
The visual environment of Manhattanis predominantly cold and cool, taking place inthe snowy winter months of Manhattan. TheShades represent a sense of warmth and hope,which is embodied in the vibrant orange ring.
Primary Colors - Orange & White*Orange and white are the primary colors for themajority of the Ul. White represents the neutralstate, and orange represents the highlighted stateand is to be used sparingly to create focus.
RGB255 127 0
DECIMAL10 022 0.0
The Division OrangeWarmth/HopeSelected/Highlighted
RGB244 255 255
DECIMAL0.91 1010
In the editor search Node Variables
Global Varlables > Ull > Colors > TweakableDesign Varlables > Color  Base Color
Warm WhiteDefault UlNeutral State
6.2 Secondary Colors
"Secondary colors, when used sparingly*, can bringcontext and draw attention to an element or action."
RGB255480DECIMAL006 0.8 0.72
RGB14020060DECIMAL0.27 0.59 0.04
Hostile RedNegative
Secondary Colors - Gameplay colors *The secondary colors can bring information intocontext by highlighting it as positive or negative.
The secondary colors are also applied to healthbars to designate allies from foes, Orange willpredominantly be used when an action is relatedto the player character such as experience gain,or contextual interactions.
RGB71 230 220DECIMAL0.D6 0.8 D.72
Healing GreenPositive
Allies Teal
* One strang warkflow idea Is to develap graphs or initlaldesigns entirely in white,using opacity to desior value, Adding hints of orange at the end tohlerarchy.
7. TEXT & LEGIBILITY
Borda LightBorda RegularBorda MediumBorda Heavy
7.1 Volumetric Text
As 2D text is applied to a 3-Dimensionalspace with a moving camer a, challenges can arise inensuring legibility.
Text at extreme angles are illegibleText sizes vary with distanceBackgrounds vary in color & value
The following section should serve as a guide toensure that text is legible at an ideal distance fromthe screen, by demonstrating the best use of eachweight and size within the Borda family, and usingz-depth to enhance legibility.
X
Tilt >35
Borda Light Thin typeface, only useful when very large
Problematic when scaling in world.
Minimum SizeABCDEFGHI]KLMNOPQRSTUWabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwzyz0
Borda RegulaA light typeface, useful for large headers
ABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQRSTUWWXYMinimum Sizeabcdefghijktmnopgrstuwwzyz01234s
wOTc Thn Ws hhkd thn wnlohte ie to ton tho. on
Borda Mediumdeal for in world scaling text,The most versatile typeface, icnames and damage numbers.
Minimum sizeABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdetghijkimnapqrstuwwzyz0123456789
89
Borda Heavy
A bolder altemative to Borda Medlum,good to put emphasis ontext, Can be scaled to the smallest size and still remain Legible.ldeal for Important numbers such as the HUD ammo and strongdamage points
MinimurIm SizeABCDEFGHIKLMNOPORSTUVWXYZabcdeighikimnopgrStuwwzyz0n234156789
35o Maximumn Annla
trs
e
NOTE The idea behind the weights Is to keep the overallthickness of the typeface within a clase range for text of varyingsizes Light at very large and bold at very small should havesimilar thickness
MANDATE All elements shoul
3-4.meters
7.2 Layers & Treatment
Z-depth should be utilized to both enhance legibilityand draw attention to important information.
20
田
AO
Text
1+2+3
Text Layers BreakdownThe text compound shouldbe composed of three layers,each layer serving a purposeThe combined effect shouldenhance Legibility and give asense of 3D projection,
Text
Main Text LayerProjected ForwardWhite/Color [.8e Opacity)
Color should be applied totext to give it certain context(Ex. damage numbers,contamination zones, orpositive and negative values)
Text
2
Shadow Text LayerSlightly Behind Text Dim Black [.33 Opacity)
This layer enhanceslegibility by acting asa 'drop shadow' over lightbackgrounds, and shouldalways be present
Text
3
Ghost Text Layer
Far Behind Faint white [11 Opacity)
Blurred Backingenhances legibility overhigh contrast backgrounds,and should be used forimportant information (buttoninteractions, mission criticals)
Tinted BackingBlack [.33 Opacity)should be used to helptext appear over lighterbackgrounds,*
Color [66 Opacity)can be used to momentarilydraw attention to information
XP
ctions)
ROGUE: A BG Image node contains a blur'A separate BG Image should be used to apply athe blurred backing
* Cantrast filter shader (insert name here)]
NOTE Because coloredshould be tinted with c
to text.
lutton-ButtonName
tle extra padding In the text stack containensure the text stays over the backing wher
8.SHADERS & VFX
Shaders can provide an importantvisual effect which enhances the look of the Ulto a much more complex degree, by interactingwith the world and in-game meshes, (Ex, edgetracing geometry,highlighting, screen efects)
The Ul within The Division is a unique mixtureof traditional information graphics, and VFX*.
A balanced combination of raw informationgraphics (crucial gameplay information throughU) and VFX (through shaders), will help makethe visual impact feel integrated into the world.
StyleShaders should resemble the Ul art style asmuch as possible, following the previous visualelements and style guidelines [spatial, light andairy,minimal, flexible, temporary)
GlitchingMomentary glitching is a strong stylistic elementof the shaders. Since they are so complex, theimperfection of the OS is more apparent andglitching should be seen occasionally (brokenlines, offsetting. etc).
9. ICONOGRAPHY STYLE
9.1 Creating lcons
Monocolor White
Stylized simplification
No gradients
 Legible at 5% screen size
Iconography is an important part of The Division toreduce the amount of text displayed in the world, HUD and menus.Symbols should be clear, immediately understandable, and easy toread at a Small size.
Standard practice for clear icon design should be to ensure that finelines are not too thin at small sizes, and the overall symbol feellike one solid form.
10.1 Character is King
The player is an invisible spectator, peeking at the characterand his Ul. Information should be visible to the camera, butalways relative and angled towards the character.
Fixed UI
This Ul has a soft connection, fixedto the camera, but made to look relative to thecharacter, This kind of Ul can ensure legibilityfor important information by being fixed on thescreen, especially when navigation is needed.
Related Cameras
HUD
MegamapMain Menu
InventoryLoot
In World Ul
This Ul has a hard connection with an in-worldlocation (bones, objects), but is oriented to ensurelegibility for the camera. This kind of Ul willmove on the screen with collision, animation andaiming. This Ul should consider mirroring left andright based on the character's cover position.
1 Default Camera2 Aiming View
3 Indoor Default Camera
4 Indoor Aiming View
S Low Cover L/R
9 High Cover L/R
6 Low Cover Aiming L/R
10 High Cover Edge L/R
7 Low Cover Edge L/R
11 High Cover Edge Aiming L/R
8 Low Cover Edge Aiming L/R12 Dead &,Dwon
1Soft vs Hard Connection - Cannections relate Uil to cameraIn a soft cannectian the camera will move with the Ull and
char-
NO1
Sare